---
title: "Archivist.getArchives"
_old_id: "779"
_old_uri: "revo/archivist/archivist.getarchives"
---

getArchives Snippet
-------------------

This snippet displays the results from an archive link generated by the [Archivist](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.archivist "Archivist.Archivist") snippet.

Usage
-----

Simply place the snippet wherever you would like to display archives. getArchives will automatically handle the FURLs and input from the [Archivist](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.archivist "Archivist.Archivist") snippet call.

```
<pre class="brush: php">
[[!getArchives? &parents=`4,12,33`]]

```<div class="note">If using with [getPage](/extras/revo/getpage "getPage"), make sure to set &cache=`0` on the getPage call.</div>Available Properties
--------------------

getArchives is a variant of [getResources](/extras/revo/getresources "getResources"), **so all the properties in** **[getResources](/extras/revo/getresources "getResources")** **are also available to getArchives**, as well as the following:

<table><tbody><tr><th>Name</th><th>Description</th><th>Default</th></tr><tr><td>tpl</td><td>Name of a chunk serving as a resource template.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>parents</td><td>Comma-delimited list of ids serving as parents.</td><td> </td></tr><tr><td>filterField</td><td>The field to use to filter by when filtering by archives. Make sure this is the same as the sortBy parameter on the Archivist snippet call.</td><td>publishedon</td></tr><tr><td>filterPrefix</td><td>The prefix to use for GET parameters with the Archivist links. Make sure this is the same as the filterPrefix parameter on the getArchives snippet call.</td><td>arc\_</td></tr><tr><td>tagsIndex</td><td>If set, and a REQUEST var of this index is found, will automatically filter results by the value.</td><td>tags</td></tr><tr><td>toPlaceholder</td><td>If set, will set the output of this snippet to this placeholder rather than output it.</td><td> </td></tr></tbody></table>If your getArchives call is not displaying any results and your resources are **hidden from menus**, make sure you specify the &showHidden=`1` parameter (inherited from getResource) parameter!

getArchives Chunks
------------------

There is 1 chunk that is processed in getArchives. Its corresponding getArchives parameter is:

- [tpl](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.getarchives/archivist.getarchives.tpl "Archivist.getArchives.tpl") - The Chunk to use for each result displayed.

Examples
--------

Display archives for parents 4, 12 and 33, and set the results to a placeholder called 'results':

```
<pre class="brush: php">
[[!getArchives? &parents=`4,12,33` &toPlaceholder=`results`]]

<h2>Search Results</h2>

[[!+results]]

```See Also
--------

1. [Archivist.Archivist](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.archivist)
  1. [Archivist.Archivist.tpl](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.archivist/archivist.archivist.tpl)
2. [Archivist.ArchivistGrouper](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.archivistgrouper)
3. [Archivist.getArchives](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.getarchives)
  1. [Archivist.getArchives.tpl](/extras/revo/archivist/archivist.getarchives/archivist.getarchives.tpl)